i am not a baker...

but this is what i would like to learn how to make. (chockolate chip cookie)

recepie from::::: http://departingthetext.blogspot.com/2015/03/how-to-make-ideal-chocolate-chip-cookie.html

Put the cookie dough in the oven and the heat triggers a series of chemical reactions, transforming dough into cookies. 

When the dough reaches 92 degrees Fahrenheit, the butter inside melts...causing the dough to spread out. This occurs because butter is an emulsion made of two substances that don't want to stay together. Butter is made water and fat along with dairy solids that help hold them together.
As the butter melts, the water is released and as it continues to get hotter the released water expands into steam.
Beating the butter and sugar adds air to the cookie dough. It also dissolves the sugar into the butter adding more air which will help leaven the cookie.
NOTE: Baking soda spreads the cookie, baking powder puffs it up.
This expanding water pushes against the dough from the inside, making the dough rise.
When the dough reaches 136 degrees Fahrenheit, salmonella bacteria often found in raw eggs, die off.
At 144 degrees Fahrenheit, changes begin in the cookie's proteins (found mostly from the dough's eggs). Exposed to heat, protein strings unfold and give substance to the dough and making it rise.
At 212 degrees Fahrenheit, the cookie stiffens, cracks are created and steam from the boiling water is released, creating airy pockets that make the cookie light and fluffy
There is also a leavening agent - baking soda - sodium bicarbonate.  The baking soda reacts with acids in the dough to create carbon dioxide gas which also makes airy pockets in the cookie.
At 310 degrees Fahrenheit, maillard reactions occur. During maillard reactions, proteins and sugars break down and rearrange themselves forming ring-like structures that reflect light. This gives the cookies (or thanksgiving turkey or bread and muffins) their rich brown color. But, even more important this reaction results in a range of flavor and aroma compounds that continue to interact with each other... and drive those waiting around for their cookies to near mayhem in anticipation.
Finally, at 356 degrees Fahrenheit, the final reaction in the cookie is carmalization. Carmelization occurs when the sugar molecules break down causing the sweet nutty flavor we've all come to love in our cookies.